Bender Book (#295)
pulp-platform/bender: book/src/workflow/scripts.md

| `synopsys` | Synopsys Design Compiler | TCL |
| `genus` | Cadence Genus | TCL |
| `flist` / `flist-plus` | Generic file lists | Text |

For a full list of formats and their specific options, see the [Command Reference](../commands.md#bender-script).

## Targets and Filtering

When you generate a script, Bender automatically activates certain [built-in targets](../targets.md#built-in-targets). For example, `bender script vsim` automatically enables the `simulation` and `vsim` targets.

You can manually enable additional targets using the `-t/--target` flag:

```sh
# Generate a simulation script with the 'test' and 'gate' targets enabled
bender script vsim -t test -t gate > compile.tcl
```

## Useful Flags

The `script` command provides several flags to fine-tune the generated output:

### Package Filtering
- **`-p/--package <PKG>`**: Only include source files from the specified package (and its dependencies).
- **`-n/--no-deps`**: Exclude all dependencies. This generates a script containing only the files from the current package or the packages explicitly listed with `-p`.
- **`-e/--exclude <PKG>`**: Exclude a specific package from the generated script.

### RTL Assumption

> - **`--assume-rtl`**: Automatically adds the `rtl` target to any source group that does not have an explicit target specification. This is a common shorthand for generating synthesis scripts without having to tag every RTL file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`--assume-rtl`**: Automatically adds the `rtl` target to any source group that does not have an explicit target specification. This is an optional shorthand for generating synthesis scripts without having to tag every RTL file.
```

### Metadata and Debugging
- **`--source-annotations`**: Includes comments in the generated script that indicate which Bender package and source group each file belongs to. This is very helpful for debugging ordering or missing-file issues.
- **`--no-default-target`**: Disables the automatic activation of built-in targets (like `simulation` for `vsim`). Use this if you want absolute control over which targets are active.

## Advanced Options

### Adding Defines
You can pass additional preprocessor macros to all files in the script using the `-D` flag:

```sh
bender script vsim -D USE_DDR4 -D CLK_FREQ=100
```

### Relative Paths
For generic file lists (`flist` or `flist-plus`), you can force Bender to use paths relative to the current directory using the `--relative-path` flag. This is useful for sharing file lists between different machines or environments.

### Custom Templates
Bender uses the [Tera](https://keats.github.io/tera/) templating engine for its scripts. If the built-in formats don't meet your needs, you can provide your own template file:

```sh
bender script template --template my_custom_format.tera > output.txt

> ```

Reviewer: To assist in development, bender can dump the json it provides to the template using bender script template_json
